Hi there, and welcome this module in our Pluralsight course,
Monitoring and Event Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers.
My name's Mike Brown.
In this module,
we're going to work with tags in AWS. In this module, we're going to
begin by discussing why tagging AWS resources is important. We're going
to discuss use cases for tags in AWS. We're then going to work with AWS
tags for resource organization, software deployment,
and EC2 instance management.
So let's begin by introducing AWS tagging. Starting with the basics,
you might want to think about tag as being like a label, a piece of
metadata that you assign to a resource. Each tag that you create
consists of a key and optional value.
So for EC2, for example,
you might create a tag with a key of server name on a
value of server1, a key‑value pair.
Tags allow you to categorize your AWS resources in different ways.
You might want to use tags for different departments,
different projects, different cost centers.
There's a myriad of different ways that we can use tags inside AWS.
One of the things we can do with tags is search against
tags and filter a list of resources.
So if you want to work with all resources of project X,
you can search for the project text tag and then apply policies, apply
controls, apply software updates to just those sets of resources. Resources
in AWS can have up to 50 tags. But for each resource,
each tag must be unique.
Our customer, Globomantics, has some requirements for us.
Firstly,
they want to organize their monthly bills based around the
different cost centers in Globomantics.
That way they know what each department is spending in AWS and can match
each department's AWS spend to that department's budget.
Also,
the Globomantics DevOps teams will be using CI/CD
pipelines to deploy their application code,
and they need to be able to identify the correct compute resources for each
code deployment. Globomantics also has a requirement to restrict access to
resources based on custom values that can be assigned when the resources are
launched. AWS tags can help Globomantics with each of these requirements.
Firstly, we'll advise Globomantics to enable cost allocation tags. Once cost
allocation tags have been enabled,
AWS tracks costs at a very detailed level so that you can use
Cost Explorer to view all the costs incurred by a particular tag.
For Globomantics' automation requirements, we can configure tags
on each compute resource.
So one set of EC2 machines can be tagged in such a way
that they will get application one and updates application
one when they're rolled out,
while another set of EC2 machines will be tagged in such a way
that they will only get application two.
Finally,
Globomantics can use tags for access control. We can
constrain access to AWS resources based on tags.
So, for example, a database administrator can be given actions in RDS,
but only to a specific set of RDS instances based on tags.
So most AWS services take advantage of tagging.
Systems Manager, for example,
can use tags to group resources into resource groups.
And once resources are grouped into resource groups,
we can target administrative activity against that resource group. Amazon
Inspector uses tags to identify a group of EC2 resources that it will then
run its security checks against. Identity Access Management can use tags as
part of resource‑based access control and attribute‑based access control.
And CodeDeploy can use tags to identify groups of instances to which it will
deploy code. We have Cost Explorer that can break down our bills based on
tags and EC2 that can use tags for things like monitoring and access control.
So these are just some of the services that can use tags inside AWS.
Now, when working with tagging,
we might have to adopt reactive governance. With reactive governance, we
are looking for resources that are not properly tagged and either tagging
them manually or tagging them automatically.
And if your organization hasn't been using tagging up until this point,
you'll have to go through a process of reactive governance so that
all of your resources have a consistent set of tags. Ideally,
we'll then adopt proactive governance.
This ensures that tags are standardized across resources that you
create. How might your organization used tags in AWS? It's definitely
a question that's worth thinking about.
Do you use tagging now?
Will you use tagging in the future I would probably guess that
for organizations that have DevOps teams, tagging will be one of the main ways that you identify resources.